towards the end of the 1980s attitudes
to the Amazon began to change the
military government gave way to an
elected one which was more sympathetic
to Indians and environmentalists in the
Brazil of today tribal rights are
written down in the constitution large
areas of rainforest to protect it by law
and the politician looking after these
areas was once a foot soldier in the
environmental movement mailing in German
I believe the Amazon is one of the most
beautiful and blessed areas of the
planet it's a place where new life is
created every fraction of a second
probably HIPPA Luiza Cardiff referred to
though 32% of the rainforest is now
under government protection the story
does not end here a fight continues to
rage between environmentalists and those
who want to develop the vast area that
remains unprotected on the frontline of
development are farmers eager to make a
living from the land that surrounds them
AB Universidad an amazonian we took and
there is a large species of wildlife in
Amazon it's true but it's a problem if
you forget about the 22 million people
who live here upon toki you see Brazil
listening to the opinion of people from
other countries like Britain like
Greenpeace activists who are now
interfering in how we run the country
bottom of the radio pious Pio Stefan
Ella was one of a new breed of settlers
shaping the Amazon people that
environmentalists in the 1970s never
predicted agricultural businessman back
then it was argued that forests could
not be turned into farmland as the trees
hold all the nutrients and removing them
would make the land infertile some
ecologist say the end result of the
deforestation will be desert many
conservationists claim that at the
current rate two thirds of this vast
area may disappear by the end of the
century so where is the desert Pio
Stefan ellos farm has cleared many
decades ago and so here if anywhere
should be a wasteland amazon now under
my system where we are now in the Amazon
this soil is very good to be sure I hope
it's better than Europe's Europe can
produce one crop a year and here over
the last eight years we've had 16 crops
this is fantastic what the
environmentalists didn't reckon on was
fertilizers ever-increasing amounts of
chemicals are being sprayed over the
Amazon ensuring year-on-year
productivity for farmers like Pio it's
worth the investment as the amazon has
two great advantages there's high
rainfall and year-round sunshine it's
ironic that the things that make the
rainforests are rich in life are
accelerating its destruction